We very are pleased to submit our manuscript titled "Detecting and quantifying
parasite-induced host mortality from intensity data: method comparisons and
limitations".  In this manuscript we provide a novel approach to a classic
problem in parasitology: how to infer parasite-induced host mortality from
parasite intensity data. As parasite-induced host mortality can be an important
factor regulating host population dynamics, it is critical to both improve our
ability to detect parasite-induced mortality and, more importantly, understand
the severe limitations of detecting parasite-induced mortality from parasite-
intensity data.

To this end, we develop the first method that can quantitatively assess whether
or not parasite-induced mortality is a significant factor in a host-parasite
system.  Previous methods for detecting parasite-induced mortality rely on
visual, qualitative tests to detect parasite-induced host mortality and are thus
not readily comparable across different host-parasite systems. We show that our
method is highly generalizable and outperforms other previously proposed methods
for detecting and quantifying parasite-induced host mortality.  Finally, we show
our method can correctly detect PIHM when applied to empirical host-parasite
datasets. We provide well-documented and tested code for all of our analyses so
that our work can be reproduced and our methods and previous methods can be used
by other parasitologists.

Our development and testing of this novel method has also allowed us to more
fully elucidate the many problems associated with making inferences about
parasite-induced morality from intensity data alone.  Building on
previous work on parasite-induced host mortality, our study provides concrete
criteria regarding the characteristics a host-parasite system must have for any
method to detect parasite-induced host mortality, given that it is occurring.
These criteria will help parasitologists determine whether it is applicable to
use parasite-induced mortality methods on their own datasets.

In summary, our work makes two significant contributions to parasitology. First,
it provides the first generalizable and quantitative way to detect parasite-
induced mortality in host-parasite systems from intensity data, allowing for
comparison of parasite-induced mortality across systems.  Second, it provides
in-depth exploration of the limitations of detecting parasite-induced mortality
from intensity data, identifying systems in which these methods can be used and
those in which these methods should not even be considered.

Thanks you for your consideration and we eagerly await your reply.

Mark Wilber

PhD Candidate
Department of Ecology, Evolution, and Marine Biology
University of California, Santa Barbara